https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Twenty+Newsgroups

http://qwone.com/~jason/20Newsgroups/lang95.bib


Problem Statement

Document/Text classification is one of the important and typical tasks in supervised machine learning (ML). Assigning classes to documents, which can be a web page, library book, media articles, gallery, etc. has many applications like e.g. spam filtering, email routing, sentiment analysis, etc. In this problem, We would like to demonstrate how we can do text classification.

20 Newsgroup Dataset

The 20 Newsgroups data set is a collection of approximately 20,000 newsgroup documents, partitioned (nearly) evenly across 20 different newsgroups. To the best of my knowledge, it was originally collected by Ken Lang, probably for his Newsweeder: Learning to filter netnews (Links to an external site.) paper, though he does not explicitly mention this collection. The 20 newsgroups collection has become a popular data set for experiments in text applications of machine learning techniques, such as text classification and text clustering.

In this dataset, duplicate messages have been removed and the original messages only contain "From" and "Subject" headers (18828 messages total).

Each new message in the bundled file begins with these four headers:

Newsgroup: alt.newsgroup

Document_id: xxxxxx

From: Cat

Subject: Meow Meow Meow

The Newsgroup and Document_id can be referenced against list.csv

Organization

Each newsgroup file in the bundle represents a single newsgroup
Each message in a file is the text of some newsgroup document that was posted to that newsgroup.
This is a list of the 20 newsgroups:

comp.graphics
comp.os.ms-windows.misc
comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware
comp.sys.mac.hardware
comp.windows.x rec.autos
rec.motorcycles
rec.sport.baseball
rec.sport.hockey sci.crypt
sci.electronics
sci.med
sci.space
misc.forsale talk.politics.misc
talk.politics.guns
talk.politics.mideast talk.religion.misc
alt.atheism
soc.religion.christian
 

Task

Problem Understanding
EDA of Dataset
Data Preprocessing
Model Building & Training
Performance Evaluation & Reporting
Model Deployment
Model Inference